Where the Heart Beats - John Cage, Zen Buddhism, and the Inner Life

“Then the answers, instead of coming from my likes and dislikes, come from chance operations, and that has the effect of opening me to possibilities that I hadn’t considered. Chance-determined answers will open my mind to the world around.”

"implication is every answer is good"

By making desision of aspects of work, defining the parametors, and sequence of ivent with I ching - chance operation, the work is descovered from a process of execution. While decision of operation is made, the body still need to execute the work which result in vaiations of inacurecy. Mathmatical idea have to take a shape in organic and granural world.

CNC and other degital fabrication medium highlights relationship between notational medium - mathmatical coordinate system and the organic space the operation takes place.    -zimoun water driplet work

The chance operation takes and weight away from the desire of controlled expression - the intent of work. Rather thinking about desicions and aspect of work as good or bad in relation to your desired effect, chance operation make us observe and enjoy the process of thing being made and expressed through our body. 

Jeffery Scbber drawing

"only thing I can't tell is the movement of the brush, I have to except it"

There is somehting fresh thinking aobut exeptance. Coming in terms with differences between references (idea) and the thing that are made (execution, hapening). It allow the person who is making work to be a collaborator and observer taking a burden off of expectation of making something they think they should. 

In an informational age, we reserch everyting, form what toothpase I shoud buy to where to live to how we should approach life via articles, reviews and opinions. I find myself having 15 tabs opend on my web browser about this one shoes I am thinking of buying. We might be able to control many aspect of our lives than ever before. Than the idea of implementing the chance operation to our lives seems difficult. 

What become important here? Is it how we interprete and execute the notational work? Or is it how we create the system of operation, the algorythm? Maybe they are together the work as whole. This idea expands the art work as an instance to life around the work. Just as Cage collecting and carrying the rocks that he lived with as point of entry to his drawing, things around us - systems we have cerated around us informs what comes out of us as a work - some of them which we may or may not be able to control but thinking in this way can highlight the expression that comes through way we live our lives. 



:Posessed: 
